Title:

Best place to start a Chinese restaurant in New Jersey

Overview

This goal of the current project is to provide the preliminary
knowledge of where is the best potential place to start a new
restaurant in New Jersey. For small business starters who would like
to a new restaurant, deciding where to start their business is always
difficult. The main concern is the customer base, and intuitively, one
would hypothesize that the number of the restaurants of a certain type
correlates with the corresponding type of populations: likely more
Chinese restaurants are to be found in place with more Chinese
populations; if a town or county with large Korea people but with a
relative less Korea restaurants, it would likely be a good place to
start a Korea restaurants. The project is aimed to justify this
hypothesis and provide a framework to find potential good places for
new restaurants.  Starting a small business is an important
life-changing decision to make, so any suggestions with realistic data
would likely to help. As an example, Chinese restaurants of New Jersey
are focused.


Data Sources:

The best place to starting a Chinese restaurant in New Jersey
definitely needs a complicated statistical model, while in the current
simplified model only are considered. The following information are
gathered with different techniques: the population of Chinese in each
township of New Jersey, the total number of Chinese restaurants in
each township.

- Department of Labor and Workforce Development of New Jersey made
public the census of New Jersey Labor force through NJ Labor Market
Views. The 2010 census is available online
lwd.dol.state.nj.us/labor/lpa/pub/lmv/lmv_18.pdf, which links to Asian
alone census
http://lwd.dol.state.nj.us/labor/lpa/census/2010/sf1/mcd/asianbymcd.
xls. This is served as the source of distribution of Asian population
including Chinese in municipalities of New Jersey.

- Total number of Chinese restaurants in each municipality. To get an
  estimate of total number of Chinese restaurants in each municipality
  of New Jersey, the foursquare public API is adopted. The key words
  "Chinese Restaurants" is searched via foursquare near each
  municipality, and simply the returned number of venues is taken as
  the total number of Chinese restaurants. In principle, many other
  information such as the rating of the restaurants, the price scale
  of the restaurants could be extracted with the foursquare (or Yelp)
  API, which would add more variables to the current projects. Note
  this is a rough estimate and could be improved by performing more
  accurate searches.


- Also the way to geometrically categorizing Jersey counties into
  North, Central, South Jersey is taken from Wikipedia.

Methodology Plan:

The following two issues must be modeled in order to achieve the goal
of this project:

- Is the hypothesis, that the total number of Chinese restaurants
  correlates with the population of Chinese in a specific location,
  reasonable. To check this hypothesis, an ordinary linear regression
  is to be carried out with the number of population of Chines as
  regressor and the number of Chinese restaurants as
  response. Depending on the data, one need to choose the scale of
  location widely. For example, one has the choice to focus on
  municipality level or on the county level. Since in reality
  different locations might be adjacent geometrically, so that the
  crowd of a small town could be satisfied by the restaurants located
  in a nearby location. In this study it is found county is likely a
  good choice for this crude study. For a more accurate analysis, one
  might need more details on the distributions of the restaurants and
  relevant populations.


- If the hypothesis is reasonable, decide the potential candidates for
  starting a Chinese restaurants. The indicator could be ranked by the
  residue of the linear regression fit of each place.

- Depending on the data, one could study further how geometry affects
  the linear regression. The population of a specific group normally
  prefers a few places. For example, Chinese tends to populate in
  Central Jersey. By categorizing each municipality/county
  geometrically, the hypothesis could be reexamined in different
  groups, which will provide hints on the effects of geometrical
  factors.

Exploratory Data Analysis:

As this step, in total 567 municipalities are identified from the New
Jersey Census, and the total number of Chinese restaurants in each
municipality in this study is fetched online via the foursquare
API. Note that at this stage the foursquare API with userless access
does not return the exact or up-to-date information. However at the
time being it is assumed that the values are relatively correct. This
crude estimate can be easily improved once more accurate information
is viable from foursquare API. 

The first plot shows that the ordinary linear regression analysis for
all corresponding data (total number of Chinese Restaurants and the
population of Chines in each county). The result shows that the
correlation between the total number of Chinese restaurants and with
the population of Chinese is significant (top panel). Note it is found
that the linear regression on the municipality level does not exhibit
a significant correlation, likely because that many of the 567
municipalities are small so that significant fluctuations are in the
number of restaurants. The residue of the ordinary linear regression
is depicted in the bottom panel, which shows that counties like
Middlesex and Somerset are in need of more Chinese restaurants.

The second plot shows that the ordinary linear regression analysis
with the same data above but considering the geometrical factor. The
total 21 counties are grouped into three categories (North Jersey,
Central Jersey, South Jersey) according to their geometrical
locations. The motivation of this study is that in the first plot it
seems that the counties in Central Jersey are in need for more Chinese
restaurants. The results are quite interesting. The figure clearly
shows the effect of the geometrical factor are crucial. For North
Jersey, the above hypothesis holds nicely, and the situation is
similar in South Jersey except that the Chinese population in the
South Jersey are quite low. Interestingly the linear regression
coefficient for the North Jersey and South Jersey fits are not far
away, implying likely a common scale between the number of restaurant
and the population. However the data for the Central Jersey deviates
from this linear behavior, showing a very different behavior.  In
fact, the regression model for Central Jersey is very bad and the
coefficient of population is insignificant. The cause of this unique
behavior is yet to be examined in a more careful study with better
data source. If this conclusion is true, this likely indicates that
that more Chinese restaurants are needed in Central Jersey.


Conclusions:

Working on this project in less than two days is already a very
valuable experience for me. It is actually challenging and
interesting. I started from knowing nothing about pandas and internet
API and I am glad that I have made possible the project from a very
simple idea with a lot of efforts. I appreciate the power of data
science in realistic life even more with this nice
experience. Doubtlessly I am excited to learn all the techniques on
data mining and analysis with possible guidance from experts and other
fellows, and study more projects in realistic life.


